README.md, before:

**python-xbrl** is a library for parsing [xbrl](http://www.xbrl.org/Specification/XBRL-2.1/REC-2003-12-31/XBRL-2.1-REC-2003-12-31+corrected-errata-2013-02-20.html) documents providing output as both a basic model object and serialized objects
thur [marshmallow](http://marshmallow.readthedocs.org/en/latest/) for rendering into standards formats like JSON or HTTP API

Usage
-----

If you really want to become familiar with this library, read
the docstrings in the code.

Initialization
--------------

To start using the library, first import the `XBRLParser`

    from parser import XBRLParser

Simple Parsing Workflow
-----------------------

First parse the incoming XRBL file into a new `XBRL` basic object

    xbrl = XBRLParser.parse(file("sam-20131228.xml"))
    
Then you can parse the document using different parser

    gaap_obj = XBRLParser.parseGAAP(xbrl)
    
Now we have a `GAAP` model object that has the GAAP parsed elements from the document.

You can serialize the GAAP model object into a serialized object acceptable for rending into a standard format such as JSON or HTTP API.

    serialized = GAAPSerializer(gaap_obj)
    
You can also just view the data in the serialized object

    print serialized.data
    
You can apply various parsers to the base `XBRLParser` object to get different data than just GAAP data from the document. In addition as expected you can also create different serialized objects on the resulting parsed data object. 

Testing
-------

To run the unit tests, you need pytest

    pip install pytest

Once you have that, `cd` into the root directory of this repo and

    py.test --tb=line -vs

License
-------

    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the license.

Commit message:

Updates for doc_date and doc_type

README.md, after:

**python-xbrl** is a library for parsing [xbrl](http://www.xbrl.org/Specification/XBRL-2.1/REC-2003-12-31/XBRL-2.1-REC-2003-12-31+corrected-errata-2013-02-20.html) documents providing output as both a basic model object and serialized objects
thur [marshmallow](http://marshmallow.readthedocs.org/en/latest/) for rendering into standards formats like JSON or HTTP API

Usage
-----

If you really want to become familiar with this library, read
the docstrings in the code.

Initialization
--------------

To start using the library, first import the `XBRLParser`

    from parser import XBRLParser

Simple Parsing Workflow
-----------------------

First parse the incoming XRBL file into a new `XBRL` basic object
    
    xbrl_parser = XBRLParser()
    xbrl = XBRLParser.parse(file("sam-20131228.xml"))
    
Then you can parse the document using different parsers

    gaap_obj = XBRLParser.parseGAAP(xbrl, doc_date="20131228", doc_type="10-K")
    
Now we have a `GAAP` model object that has the GAAP parsed elements from the document. You can also parse different types of documents, currently only 10-K and 10-Q is supported

You can serialize the GAAP model object into a serialized object acceptable for rending into a standard format such as JSON or HTTP API.

    serialized = GAAPSerializer(gaap_obj)
    
You can also just view the data in the serialized object

    print serialized.data
    
You can apply various parsers to the base `XBRLParser` object to get different data than just GAAP data from the document. In addition as expected you can also create different serialized objects on the resulting parsed data object. 

Testing
-------

To run the unit tests, you need pytest

    pip install pytest

Once you have that, `cd` into the root directory of this repo and

    py.test --tb=line -vs

License
-------

    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the license.
